some people are obsessed by French wines
others love playing golf or devouring
literature one of my greatest pleasures
in life is I have to admit a bit special
I cannot tell you how much I enjoy
watching cities from the sky from an
airplane window some cities are calmly
industrious like Dusseldorf or
Louisville others project an energy that
they can hardly contain like New York or
Hong Kong and then you have Paris or
Istanbul and their patina full of
history
I see cities as living beings and when I
discovered them from far above I like to
find those main streets and highways
that structure their space especially at
night when commuters make these arteries
look dramatically red and golden the
city's vascular system performing its
vital function right before your eyes
but when I'm sitting in my car after an
hour and a half of commute every day
that reality looks very different
nothing not public radio no podcast
not even mindfulness meditation makes
this time worth living isn't it absurd
that we created cars that can reach 130
miles per hour and we now drive them at
the same speed as 19th century horse
carriages in the US alone
we spent twenty nine point six billion
hours commuting in 2014 with that amount
of time ancient Egyptians could have
built 26 pyramids of giza we do that in
one year a monumental waste of time
energy and human potential
for decades our remedy to congestion was
simple build new roads or enlarge
existing ones and it worked
it worked admirably for Paris when the
city tore down hundreds of historical
buildings to create 85 miles of
transportation friendly boulevards and
it still works today in fast-growing
emerging cities but in more established
urban centers significant Network
expansions are almost impossible habitat
is just too dense real estate too
expensive and public finances too
fragile our city's vascular system is
getting clogged it's getting sick and we
should pay attention our current way of
thinking is not working for our
transportation to flow we need a new
source of inspiration so after 16 years
working in transportation my aha moment
happened when speaking with the biotech
customer she was telling me how her
treatment was leveraging specific
properties of our vascular system Wow I
thought our vascular system all the
veins and arteries in our body making
miracles of logistics every day this is
the moment I realized that biology has
been in the transportation business for
billions of years it has been testing
countless solutions to move nutrients
gases and proteins it really is the
world's most sophisticated
transportation laboratory so what if the
solution to our traffic challenges was
inside us I wanted to know why is it
that blood flows in our veins most of
our life when our big cities get clogged
on a daily basis and and the reality is
that you're looking at two very
different networks you know I don't know
if you realize but each of us has 60,000
miles of blood vessels in our body
60,000 miles that's two-and-a-half times
the Earth's circumference inside you
what it means is that blood vessels are
everywhere inside us not just under the
surface of our skin but if you look at
our cities yes we have some
around subway systems and some channels
and bridges and also some helicopters in
the sky but the vast majority of our
traffic is focused on the ground on the
surface so in other words while our
vascular system uses the three
dimensions inside us our urban
transportation is mostly 2-dimensional
and so what we need is to embrace that
verticality if our surface grid is
saturated well let's elevate our traffic
this Chinese concept of a bus that can
straddle traffic jams that was an
eye-opener on new ways to think about
space and movements inside our cities
and we can go higher and suspend our
transportation like we did with our
electrical grid Tel Aviv and Abu Dhabi
are talking about testing this
futuristic networks of suspended
magnetic pots and we can keep climbing
and fly the fact that a company like
Airbus is now seriously working on
flying urban taxis is telling us
something flying cars are finally moving
from science fiction DejaVu to
attractive business case territory and
that's an exciting moment so building
this 3d transportation network is one of
the ways that we can mitigate traffic
jams and and solve traffic jams but it's
not the only one we have to question
other fundamental choices that we made
like the vehicles we use just imagine a
very familiar scene you've been driving
for 42 minutes the two kids behind you
are getting restless and you're late do
you see that slow car in front of you
always comes when you're late right that
driver is looking for parking there is
no parking spot available in the area
but how would he know it is estimated
that up to 30% of urban traffic is
generated by drivers looking for parking
do you see the hundred cars around you
85 of them only have one passenger those
eighty-five drivers could all fit in one
on the neon red bus
so the question is why are we wasting so
much space if it is what we need the
most why are we doing this to ourselves
biology would never do this space inside
our arteries is fully utilized at every
heartbeat a higher blood pressure
literally compacts millions of red blood
cells into massive trains of oxygen that
quickly flow throughout our body and the
tiny space inside our red blood cells is
not wasted either in healthy conditions
more than 95% of their oxygen capacity
is utilized can you imagine if the
vehicles we used in our cities were 95%
for all the additional space that we
would have to walk to buy and to enjoy
our cities
the reason blood is so incredibly
efficient is that our red blood cells
are not dedicated to specific organs or
tissues otherwise we would probably have
traffic jams in our veins now they are
shared they are shared by all the cells
of our body and because our network is
so extensive each one of our 37 trillion
cells get its own deliveries of oxygen
precisely when it needs them blood is
both a collective and an individual form
of transportation but for our cities
we've been stuck we've been stuck in an
endless debate between creating a car
centric society or extensive mass
transit systems and I think we should
transcendence I think we can create
vehicles that combine the convenience of
cars and the efficiencies of trains and
buses just imagine you're comfortably
sitting in a fast and smooth urban train
along with 1200 passengers the problem
with urban trains is that you sometimes
have to stop 5 10 times 15 times before
your final destination what if in this
train you didn't have to stop in this
train wagons can detach dynamically
while you're moving and become Express
driverless buses that move on a
secondary road network and so without a
single stop nor a lengthy transfer
you're now sitting in a bus that is
headed toward your suburb and when you
get close
the section your said sitting in
detaches and self drives you right your
doorstep it is collective and individual
at the same time and this could be one
of the shared modular and driverless
vehicles of tomorrow now as if walking
in a city buzzing with drones flying
taxis modular buses and suspended
magnetic BOTS was not exotic enough I
think there is another force in action
that will make urban traffic mesmerizing
if you think about it the current
generation of driverless cars is just
trying to earn its way into a traffic
grid made by and for humans they are
trying to learn traffic rules which is
relatively simple and coping with human
and predictability which is more
challenging but what will happen when
whole cities become driverless would we
need traffic lights will we need lanes
how about speed limits red blood cells
are not flowing in lanes they never stop
at red lights in the first driverless
cities you will have no red lights and
no lanes and when all the cars are
driverless and connected everything is
predictable and reaction time minimum
they can drive much faster and can take
any rational initiative that can speed
them up or the cars around them so
instead of rigid traffic rules flow will
be regulated by a mesh of dynamic and
constantly self-improving algorithms the
result a strange traffic that mixes the
fast and smooth rigor of German
autobahns and the creative vitality of
the intersections of Mumbai traffic will
be functionally exuberant it will be
liquid like our blood and and by a
strange paradox the more robot eyes our
traffic grid will be the more organic
and alive its movement will feel so yes
biology has all the attributes of a
transportation genius today but this
process has taken billions of years and
went through all sorts of iterations and
mutations
and we can't wait billions of years to
evolve our transportation system we now
have the dreams the concepts and the the
technology to create 3d transportation
networks invent new vehicles and change
the flow in our cities let's do it thank
you